## Homework Assignment 1
### Anika Sindhwani

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;I will be looking specifically at what it means to be a ‘singing in the shower’ playlist. As such, my corpus will include the following Spotify playlists: “Songs to Sing in the Shower”, “shower / sing-a-long”, and “Shower”. I will also be including the following playlists that feature similar songs, but aren’t targeted as ‘singing in the shower’ playlists: “Pop Hits Rewind” and “Pop Hits 2000-2018”. By including both sets of playlists, this corpus will represent playlists with generally similar songs, but that are or are not classified as ‘singing in the shower’ playlists. By comparing these groups, I will try to see if there is a measurable difference in certain attributes measured by Spotify, to define what it means to be a ‘singing in the shower’ playlist. I chose the most-followed ‘singing in the shower’ playlists on Spotify, so I believe it should be a good representation of music that people do enjoy while showering. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;Interestingly, comparing the shower playlists to the generic pop playlists, the means and standard deviations for most of the features are quite similar. For example, the mean tempo for both sets is 122, with standard deviations 26.9 and 26.5, respectively. The biggest noticeable differences in these measurements is in track popularly, with the shower playlists mean at 50.6 with standard deviation 26.1 vs. that of the pop playlists mean at 57.6 with standard deviation 22.3. That said, the maximum value for track popularity is 100 for the shower playlists and only 87 for the pop playlists. There is also a noticeable difference in maximum speechiness (0.592 vs. 0.453), maximum instrumentalness (0.829 vs. 0.947), maximum liveness (0.843 vs. 0.776), and maximum duration (5.568 vs. 8.069 minutes).
  
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;There are a few song outliers in each playlist, when comparing mean attribute values of each playlist and individual attribute values for the songs. For example, “Emergency” by Icona Pop has energy 0.969, danceability 0.834, and liveness 0.068, which are all values outside one or more standard deviations of the means for these values. I do believe I should include these values, especially since the two groups of playlists have similar mean and standard deviation values for most of the attributes, so that I can try to find meaningful differentiations between the two sets of playlists. 
